>> In 1961, approximately
60 miles west of Marrakesh,
Morocco, a barite mining
operation at the Jebel Irhoud
massif turned up a
fossil human skull.
The unusual skull was
classified as homo sapiens
and eventually was dated to
roughly 160,000 years ago,
but to most scientists,
this was still
a mystery, as the
Jebel Irhoud fossils
and skull looked much more
primitive than even the older
sapiens.
This stayed a
mystery until 2017,
when paleoanthropologist
Jean-Jacques Hublin
and his team from the
Max Planck Institute
opened the cave where it
was found for investigation.
They were surprised to find even
more skulls, as well as tools.
These tools, according
to their research,
dated to around
300,000 years ago.
If the fossils do in fact
represent homo sapiens,
as the team argues,
the finds push back
the origin of our species
by more than 100,000 years
and challenge certain ideals.
But the findings
also shed some light
on human brain development
by these early humans
and why they might look
a little different.
>> It is within the
variability of living humans.
The main differences
relate to the shape.
So, it's a brain which
is much less globular.
It's more elongated.
There are parts
of the brain that
is less developed than what
they are in today's people--
for example, the
cerebellum, which
is a part of the brain which
is underneath in the back.
>> The cerebellum accounts
for 10% of the organ's total
volume, but contains more
than 50% of its neurons.
It's been assumed that its
functions were strictly
to coordinate activities
like standing and breathing,
but in 2017, neuroscientists
from Stanford University
discovered that it plays a
role in reward response, one
of the main drives that motivate
and shape human behavior.
How could this part of the brain
actually help frame humanity?
The team at the Max
Planck Institute
finds this discovery
interesting,
as they believe this
early human skull shows
that the brain developed certain
areas of conscious awareness
over time and not all at once.
What could have prompted
a change in human behavior
and connectedness over
the course of history?
And more importantly, what kind
of understanding of our reality
helped us form our idea of
our place in the universe?
Several thousand miles south
of the Jebel Irhoud cave
resides a tribe with some
interesting information
on their development.
[DRUMMING]
>> The Dogon tribe of West
Africa were discovered in 1935
by two French anthropologists.
Griaule and Dieterlen
were their names.
These two anthropologists
eventually
gained the respect
of the Dogon shaman
and were allowed to hear
their sacred knowledge.
What amazed these
anthropologists
was that the Dogon tribe
possessed knowledge
of the Sirius star system that
no ancient people should ever
have possessed.
The Dogon tribe told them
that not only was there
a relationship between
Sirius and our star,
but they claim that a
group of what could only
be described as alien creatures
called the Nommos descended
down to Earth and that
this group of beings
imparted to them the knowledge
that they then possessed
about the Sirius star system.
What they couldn't
understand was
how it was they had
knowledge of a Sirius
B, which is a white dwarf star.
It's the smallest form of
visible star that we know of,
and we can barely see it
with modern day telescopes.
And yet they knew its
absolute existence,
and they called it Po Tolo,
which is a tiny seed found
in West Africa.
And they said it's a tiny star,
but it's the heaviest thing
that there is.
Well, they were
alluding to the fact
that white dwarf stars
have some of the highest
density of any stellar
bodies that we know of.
And that's not something
an ancient people should
have known anything about.
They even spoke of a Sirius
C, yet another stellar body
in the Sirius star
system, something
which wasn't proven to be true
until 1995, a full 60 years
after the discovery
of this tribe.
>> Is it possible the Dogon
tribe were taught certain
understandings of the universe
by beings from Sirius?
If so, who were these strange
beings called the Nommos,
and how did they
influence a species?
>> The most interesting thing
that I found about the Dogon
tribe is that they
highly revere twins.
They believe that
each man and woman
is born with both genders.
They have an amazing
understanding of duality.
>> The creation story of the
Dogon is absolutely wonderful.
They basically found
that, in the beginning,
there was this almighty
entity called Amma
suspiciously close to our moon.
He sets up and
creates the twins.
The first set of twins
that came out of the earth
came out a little
bit early, so they
were considered to be
imperfect, and that came
to symbolize the human race.
But there's another
group of twins
that came out that were
absolutely perfect,
and they were called the
Nommo, and the Nommo basically
were these sort of
amphibious water creatures,
and because they were so
perfect that when they finally
died they went to a place
called paradise, which
the Dogon claimed to
be somewhere in Sirius,
the star Sirius.
After the Nommos have gone
to paradise and Sirius,
they said, we're going
to go back to the Earth.
And when the Nommos landed,
they said that they basically
gave the civilizing arts to
humanity, which, back then was
living a very barbaric life.
And what's astonishing
about this story,
apart from the fact the story
is astonishing in itself
as a depiction of how creation
began in their point of view,
is the fact that it mirrors
so many other creation
myths throughout the
world, whether it's
in South America or Polynesia.
There are very, very great
similarities between the Dogon
and other cultures, as well.
>> What's fascinating about
the linguistics surrounding
the Nommos is that in ancient
India you have the Nagas,
who were a half-serpent
half-human looking deity.
In Australia with the
aboriginal tribes,
they had the Nurumbungutias.
Linguistically, these
names are all so close
together that they had to
have had a singular origin.
>> What makes it
even more amazing,
when you look at
Neolithic cultures,
the idea that
there are evolving,
standing up primates
coming in various models,
and they come up over two
million years from Lucy
in Africa, and you get to
Mesopotamia and the idea that
the tribes that
have no writing--
they have no math.
They have no ability to
build perfect pyramids,
and within a tiny,
short period of time,
you have this entire
Sumerian culture
that is building mega
structures and language.
When you come back through
the last couple of centuries,
what has been the mantra?
That homo sapiens came up out
of the jungle and out of mud,
and that 5,000 years ago,
they built the pyramids.
They built these huge structures
that we relate to Sumeria.
And probably in South
America at the same time,
structures were
being built there
because the same
builders in Mesopotamia
were building in Mexico,
Central America, South America.
It was a global architecture.
It was a global intelligence
that just comes in.
>> If this is true, how is
the star Sirius connected with
a global intelligence that
transformed early humans
into creating civilizations and
motivating them to have certain
belief systems?
>> Could it be that Sirius
itself is the repository
of a specific type of wisdom
from where came creatures
of a certain humanoid nature,
which were kind of like us,
but still very different?
Because they reside in every
single culture in the world,
and all of these people came to
the Earth after a barbaric time
to give us the stuff that
we know today-- mathematics,
astronomy, how to create
temples with monolithic blocks
and things like that,
agriculture, animal husbandry.
They all go back to these people
whose source always ends up
in Sirius.
So were they real?
Or was it a myth to explain a
specific point in the universe
where things really
originate from?
>> The Nommos were
representative of the order
on Earth.
These beings were amphibious
beings, fish-like creatures,
which were eerily,
eerily mysterious.
Now, if we take a look at other
mythologies-- for example,
ancient Atlantis--
we will find that Atlantis
has similar beings described
there called the Telchines.
The Telchines were
the beings who
possessed incredible
knowledge in metallurgy.
These beings were the
bringers of knowledge.
If we take a look at ancient
Egypt or ancient Sumeria,
we will find that several
other beings existed
in those mythologies as well.
So we will find the same beings
existing in their accounts,
but with different names.
>> The star Sirius
is the brightest star
in the Earth's sky and is in
the constellation Canis Major,
the great dog.
Its coordinates are right
ascension 6 hours 45 minutes
9 seconds, declination minus
16 degrees 42 feet 58 inches.
Could it be that the Dogon
tribe named themselves
after this connection
with the star system?
And where do we see the
coordinates of Sirius
on our planet?
>> In my personal research,
I believe that the knowledge
of the Nommos actually came
from their time in ancient Egypt
and being part of the
ancient Egyptian priesthood.
The Dogon said that
they had actually came
from ancient Egypt.
Now, that's fascinating
because in ancient Egypt,
what we find is
the fact that there
is a direct correlation between
the mass of the Great Pyramid
and the mass of the
pyramid of Kefron.
That is an exact
mathematical mirroring
of the difference between
the mass of Sirius B
and the mass of our star.
That is the fraction 1.036.
It's known as the
comma of Pythagoras,
and it is alluding to harmonic
mathematical theory, the idea
that one body can
vibrate in such a way
that it causes
change in another.
That was what the ancient
mystery schools had
as the heart of their secret.
>> The Dogon probably are part
of that offshoot that were
holding onto a very old
lineage of teachings who then,
by either war, cultural changes,
or just the mere fact that
the weather kept
changing all the time,
they migrated westwards
to where they are today.
But within their
social structure
and their spiritual
structure, you
had this concept of a creative
god called Amun, or Amma,
and the two are basically
interchangeable,
because when you look at the
ancient principle of what
Amun stands for and Amma,
they're the same being.
>> If this is true, what else
could these mystery schools
of ancient Egypt reveal about
the Sirius connection to human
development?
>> This is where things
turn fascinating,
and it's my main
point of research--
is the fact that, as
I've spoken before,
the mathematics of
harmonic resonance
were built into these
ancient monuments.
This was done by
the Anunnaki, who
were cast down on the
earth after their deceit
to Anu, because that
was the scenario left
to Enki and his 200 followers.
And they set about
building the only thing
that they could build, which
was these amazing ancient stone
structures that we couldn't
even build to this day.
They built into the
actual mathematics
of these ancient
stone structures
the very closely held secret
of all ancient mystery schools
and occult traditions.
This secret-- the fact
that the human body itself,
through the seven chakra zones,
which also equate to the seven
notes in a musical octave, can,
through harmonic resonance,
affect the reality
fabric around us--
and that's done through what
they call light wave harmonics.
Chakras are called wheels
of light for a reason,
and each one vibrates to a
different octave, if you will.
That's the exact same
knowledge that they
built into these monuments,
knowing that eventually we
would be able to
discover that and use it
as the Promethean
keys of our escape.
The star Sirius resonates
harmonically with our star.
That means that-- imagine
you walk into a room,
and in the room, there's a
gentleman playing the violin,
and on the other
side of the room,
there's a piano
that nobody's at.
You can walk over to the piano
and look down at the strings,
and each string will vibrate
to a note being played
on the violin across the room.
It's that mechanism that
we're talking about,
and that relationship exists
between Sirius and our star,
meaning that a perturbation,
a change in one
will take place
instantaneously in the next.
That may be the reason why
the Anunnaki, or the Nommos,
or the Nagas, or
Nurumbungutias came here.
They were following
this harmonic highway
through the star system.
>> There's a really
interesting thing I came across
in my research, because as you
know, I research scientists,
and I research the
work of intuitives--
the whole spectrum.
I'm looking for consistency.
I'm looking for where there's
validation from both sides.
I was given the same story--
that some of the great
beings who come and teach
throughout the cosmos to
lift consciousness anywhere--
it's just a job.
That's what they do.
They're not to be worshiped
or heralded in any other way
any more than you or I,
but that's what they do.
But there's a process
they have to go through.
There are other
people who are those
who come as masters and as
teachers for planet Earth,
and those people may be
considered to be on the path
to the sun.
If you look at Sirius
as what is considered
the sun behind the sun--
20 times brighter,
twice as large,
this incredibly brilliant star--
as the sun behind the sun,
it takes on other meanings.
One of them is that Sirius
is also associated with Isis.
So if you start looking at the
genuine meaning of what Isis
is, you go beyond all of
these common identities
to something primal, almost
primordial or prima materia--
materia, material,
mater, mother.
You go back to the
mother energy, which
is the source of physical
creation of the entire universe
or universes.
So if you take that look at
it and you look at Sirius
as the sun behind the sun,
what gives birth to the sun?
The mother of the sun.
So it would make
perfect sense that Isis
is associated with Sirius.
>> The fact that that
relationship exists at all
between two stellar bodies that
are 8.7 light years away is
an indication to us that that
same relationship exists over
the entire universe, and
because they were responsible
for developing our biology, they
knew that that same mechanism
existed within the human body--
that they literally
built within us
the ability to control our
own reality through it.
This knowledge
became the knowledge
of all the ancient mystery
schools, the knowledge of how
to actually attune yourself to
these frequencies in such a way
that you can cause change
in conformity with will.
That's the great secret
of magic practices,
and what the Egyptian
priesthood wanted forever
to try to preserve, and
have largely done so.
The knowledge is still
alive and well in a lot
of different occult
priesthoods around the world.
>> But why was this priesthood
only preserving this knowledge
for themselves?
In 1353 BC, a pharaoh
in the 18th dynasty
named Akhenaten wanted to expose
these secrets to his people?
He wanted his people
to only worship Aten,
which was the disk of the sun.
>> I think he was following
a very long tradition,
a very long bloodline,
and because of that,
he also followed a very
long spiritual tradition.
The priesthood had
gotten onto the fact
that they're onto
a good job here.
It's a job creation scheme
of dividing a central god
into many, many,
many, many gods, which
allows their people
to worship all kinds
of interesting
things, but they have
to talk to a central priesthood.
Now, that's a great
job creation scheme,
where you have someone
inserting itself
into the middle of a
connection between you
and the spiritual godhead.
Akhenaten takes over, and
he says, you know what?
I want to hurry, speed
things along a little bit.
Why don't we just begin to
remove the worship of all
of these myriads of gods?
Because people don't know what
they're worshipping anymore.
Let's concentrate
on one focal power
point, which is the Aten,
the center of all creation.
And it's not because he forbade
people to worship other gods.
He didn't do that.
What he did was is
saying, stop doing this.
I want you to focus on
the important thing,
the central issue, because
if you can understand
the central concept of
the Aten, from there,
you will empower
yourself to understand
the true nature of what
the other gods are doing.
We're going back to
the drawing board here.
And it also means
we don't give them
power to become
intermediaries between us
and the creative source, because
you don't need an intermediary.
Let's face it.
This is why he got into
a lot of deep water
and why there's a lot
of public relations
that were negatively
aimed at him
and why eventually there
was a military coup that
forced him out of power.
He was trying to
create monotheism
for the sake of focusing
people's spirituality back
where it ought to be, not
what it had developed into,
which essentially was
a corrupt priesthood.
>> This wasn't the first
mention of Aten in Egypt.
Thousands of years earlier
in the 12th dynasty,
the first known reference to
Aten the sun disk as a deity
is in the story of Sinuhe.
This reference suggests
that the deceased king
is described as rising
as god to the heavens
and uniting with the sun
disk, the divine body merging
with its maker.
Could Akhenaten have had
passed down knowledge
from an older lineage?
>> When I spirit traveled
to the 18th dynasty,
my guides took me to the temple
where Akhenaten and Nefertiti
were, and we stood and listened
to a conversation that they
had.
They were quite misshapen.
Their heads were so elongated,
and their bodies were not
of a normal human shape.
And they seemed to be intent
in their conversation about how
important it was
that they change
the beliefs of the
Egyptian people.
Both Akhenaten
and Nefertiti come
from Sirius A. They are bringing
their understanding, their lore
to Egypt, basically
as star beings.
And to make that a
bigger statement,
we're all star
beings, and we all
came in from different places.
This is where they came in.
They worshipped Aten,
which was Sirius, the sun,
and they wanted to bring
that in, because for him,
he could see, growing
up in this environment,
that the Egyptian gods
had much more power.
I also was taken back
to the Great Pyramid,
and when my guides and
I entered the pyramid,
Anubis was standing
guard, and he
wasn't going to let us get by.
And my guide spoke with
him, and he stepped aside,
and we went into the queen's
chamber, where Ra was
standing there waiting for us.
And he told me that this was
the connection, or the portal,
to Sirius and that it
is the queen's chamber
that was used for transport
to and from Sirius.
Ra told me that
Anubis was actually
adopted by Osiris and
Isis, and the adoption
was because Anubis was not
from the same place all
the Egyptian gods came from.
They are all from Orion.
Anubis came from the Southern
Cross, and when he was adopted,
he took on the head
and the shape of a dog
so that he would
emulate the dog star
and be a part of that group
of demi gods, and be accepted.
He really wanted the acceptance
of Ra, and Osiris, and Isis.
So he became a part of the group
by adopting this dog-like head.
>> I would argue in my research
that there was a connection
between these cultures
that stems back way,
way beyond what modern day
historians have been able
to trace, and the reason for
that is not only the similarity
between their pantheon of
gods, but the similarity
in the structures that they've
built and that it all goes back
to a much earlier time when
maybe the Mesoamericans came
from a completely different
part of the world.
What's fascinating
about Osiris, and Horus,
and Quetzalcoatl is their
connection to the star Sirius.
What you have with
Quetzalcoatl is
a god that has a twin
brother with a dog head.
He becomes the
star Sirius, and he
guards the sun through
the underworld,
much the same as Anubis was
the guardian of the underworld.
>> If Akhenaten knew this
deep-seated knowledge
and wanted his people to return
to the true understanding
of their being, why did the
ancient Egyptians reject this
thinking?
>> Suddenly, in the
blink of an eye,
humans started to
develop agriculture--
the animal husbandry, the
organization of crops,
organizing themselves into
cultural groups where they
develop cities and
communal areas.
That hadn't happened
before, and it
happened in the blink of
an eye out of barbarism.
So obviously there had to
have been outside influence
of people who really
understood the civilizing
qualities of nature
in order to bring that
to people who had lost
touch with that concept.
And Akhenaten really
goes back to that concept
of people who
literally stayed here
for a considerable
amount of time,
interbred, and then
died out bit by bit.
>> We know that Akhenaten and
his family are of a different
genetic breed.
That was very evident
by their features.
They looked nothing
like the people
that existed in that day.
Another thing we have
to remember is that,
when the Egyptians--
and particularly,
the 18th dynasty--
were leaving remnants,
artifacts, pictographs,
hieroglyphics, there was nothing
that was left by accident.
These were very
advance people in terms
of the level of their mystery
school training and knowledge.
They understood the
practice of magic.
Akhenaten, to me, is one of
the most fascinating people
in history.
If you read his hymn
to the sun, you'll
see that there was, again,
this great reverence for--
not the solar disk.
That's just a simpleton's way
of looking at it-- a solar disk.
No.
His honoring was of the
vast entity of the sun
and the central sun, the
sun behind the sun as well.
And this is the source of
all creation and knowledge
in his understanding.
When he talks in
simple terms in this--
the way in which the
sun affects our lives--
our lives depend on it.
Our spiritual lives, our
physical lives depend on it.
The growth of all
things on this planet
can be taken back to the
direct presence of our sun
in our solar system.
Our solar system wouldn't
exist without our sun.
So to try to draw the
people's attention back
to one central
theme, which is back
to the sun and the central
sun as the emanation
point of knowledge,
wisdom, and life itself--
that is what Akhenaten
was attempting to do.
Now sadly, this wasn't popular
among the priests of the day.
There were hierarchies
that already existed--
power players in place.
The native people were being
squeezed for taxes and fees
to the gods just
to keep some water,
just to keep a peaceful
birth happening in your home,
to keep some grains
on your table.
It was almost as
though there was
a fear-based system
of extortion happening
from the local priesthood.
Akhenaten came and was
attempting to tear all of that
down and reduce it to
no, you have the right
to be in direct
communication with your god,
as symbolized through the
sun and the central sun.
This is your sun.
This is your god.
You are part of it.
It is part of you.
It grows you.
This was about love.
It was about the
bringing together
of the divine feminine
and masculine.
They were trying to
maintain a very high level
of consciousness, and by taking
the people's attention away
from fear and petty
gods and turning
toward a life-giving
source that is their own,
they were trying to
uplift and maintain
this high level
of consciousness.
When it went, when they
were ousted, murdered,
all the other things that
happened to that family,
the lights started going
down, and we started
moving into darker ages.
>> Is it possible that this
influence from Sirius has
positioned itself in
different time periods?
According to Linda
Moulton Howe, intelligence
finds its way into our
minds throughout history.
>> When you look
at world history,
you could say that what happened
with Akhenaten was the first
try by an intelligence that
is mixed and matched genes
and made all these experiments,
and that you come all the way
to the 1700s.
And allegedly Thomas Jefferson
was writing the Declaration
of Independence in the garden
on the east coast of the United
States, and wrote
in a diary that
got reported that a
figure in a big cloak
opened up the gate
of the garden,
as if he had the right to,
and came over to where Thomas
Jefferson was, and laid
down an illustration,
and said this will be the emblem
of your nation in English,
and swept out, and that
Thomas Jefferson was
left looking at a pyramid, 13
layers with an eye and a top.
If that's true,
then it's possible
that the United
States of America
is another extraterrestrial
experiment.
They tried it once in Egypt
a few thousand years ago,
and it didn't work then.
And they have tried
it now in what's
called the United States of
America, and we're at about 230
some years.
>> If that is true, is it
possible the Sirius connection
is alive today?
The thing I would argue is
that we see the same players
over, and over, and over again.
The same energies
seem to be coming back
with the same messages.
The same bodies of
knowledge keep reappearing,
and at key points in history
when the mindset of the masses
are beginning to open up to be
able to receive new knowledge--
and this goes with
cosmic cycles, as well--
when that opening is there,
the teachers come back.
The people who are
key players come back.
And in this time, I
think we're seeing
a rebirth or re-emergence
of, not only the players
from the 18th dynasty,
but across the board
through these ages
of enlightenment.
They're back on the planet.
They're back here now.
They're trying to do their
work in whatever arena
they're working in
to bring this greater
understanding of sovereignty, of
light back into people's minds
so that they can open up
and embrace new ideas.
>> Could the new discoveries
being researched by the Max
Planck Institute be just the
beginning of the ever-evolving
human body and brain?
Is the ancient
connection to Sirius
and its possible influence
helping us elevate
consciousness to a new level?
Could new parts of our
brain be activated just
by being able to crack
the code of our origin?
>> What amazes me is that this
story survived for over 8,000
years in the Dogon culture,
and even more incredibly,
it survives into our era.
Think about it for a second.
The Lord's Prayer-- if you
find the original Lord's Prayer
in Egypt, it starts
as Amun, Amun,
Amun, who resides in heaven,
glorious is your name.
Sounds familiar.
>> Could we, as humans, be
constantly repeating a message
over and over again
from an ancient source?
How does this explain our
DNA changes and growth?
Andrew Collins
points out that there
are new discoveries into the
human DNA that shed light
on some ancient mysteries.
>> The Denisovans are probably
the most exciting discovery
in the origins of
humanity for decades--
I mean, arguably even
in the last 100 years,
because we're talking about
a previously unknown--
well, let's say--
human population
who are different
than the Neanderthals.
They're different to
anatomical modern humans.
>> Up next, we dive deeper
into Siberia's mysterious past.